CSS property: baseline-shift (#43150)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/baseline-shift/index.md

> [!NOTE]
> The `baseline-shift` property only applies to {{SVGElement("textPath")}} and {{SVGElement("tspan")}} elements nested in an {{SVGElement("svg")}}. It doesn't apply to other SVG, HTML, or pseudo-elements.

## Syntax

```css
/* <length-percentage> values */
baseline-shift: -0.5px;
baseline-shift: 4%;

/* keyword values */
baseline-shift: sub;
baseline-shift: super;

/* Global values */
baseline-shift: inherit;
baseline-shift: initial;
baseline-shift: revert;
baseline-shift: revert-layer;
baseline-shift: unset;
```

### Values

- `sub`
  - : The dominant-baseline is shifted to the default position for subscripts.
- `super`
  - : The dominant-baseline is shifted to the default position for superscripts.
- `<length-percentage>`
  - : Raises (positive value) or lowers (negative value) the dominant-baseline of the parent text content element by the specified length or percentage, with the percentage being relative to the dominant-baseline of the parent text content element's {{cssxref("line-height")}}.

## Formal definition

{{CSSInfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Using keyword values

> This example demonstrates the basic usage of the `sub` and `super` keyword values of the `baseline-shift` property, and how the `baseline-shift` CSS property takes precedence over the `baseline-shift` SVG attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates the basic usage of the `sub` and `super` keyword values of the `baseline-shift` property, as well as how the `baseline-shift` CSS property takes precedence over the `baseline-shift` SVG attribute.
```

```html hidden
<p>Original SVG</p>
```

```html
<svg viewBox="0 0 500 120" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
  <text x="10" y="50">
    Ceci
    <tspan baseline-shift="super">n'est pas</tspan>
    une super pipe!
  </text>
  <text x="10" y="90">
    Ceci
    <tspan baseline-shift="sub">n'est pas</tspan>
    une sub pipe!
  </text>
</svg>
```

```html hidden
<p><code>baseline-shift: sub;</code></p>
<svg viewBox="0 0 500 120" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
  <text x="10" y="50">
    Ceci
    <tspan baseline-shift="super">n'est pas</tspan>
    une super pipe!
  </text>
  <text x="10" y="90">
    Ceci
    <tspan baseline-shift="sub">n'est pas</tspan>
    une sub pipe!
  </text>
</svg>
<p><code>baseline-shift: super;</code></p>
<svg viewBox="0 0 500 120" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
  <text x="10" y="50">
    Ceci
    <tspan baseline-shift="super">n'est pas</tspan>
    une super pipe!
  </text>
  <text x="10" y="90">
    Ceci
    <tspan baseline-shift="sub">n'est pas</tspan>
    une sub pipe!
  </text>
</svg>
```

The SVG is repeated three times; we've only shown one copy for the sake of brevity.

#### CSS

> We make the text in all three SVG images large and cursive, adding some color to differentiate the content within the `<tspan>` elements.

Reviewer: Not a major issue, but the magenta and rebeccapurple colors appear nearly identical to my color-blind eyes. Maybe worth choosing a couple of colors with slightly more contrast relative to one another?

We set the `<tspan>` inside the second SVG to use the `baseline-shift` property's `sub` value; setting the value to `super` in the third SVG, while the first SVG has no additional CSS applied.

```css
text {
  font-family: cursive;
  font-size: 2rem;
}
[baseline-shift="sub"] {
  fill: magenta;
}
[baseline-shift="super"] {
  fill: rebeccapurple;
}

svg:nth-of-type(2) tspan {
  baseline-shift: sub;
}
svg:nth-of-type(3) tspan {
  baseline-shift: super;
}
```

```css hidden
svg {
  border: 1px solid;
  width: 15em;
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}
@supports not (baseline-shift: sub) {
  body::before {
    content: "Your browser doesn't support the `baseline-shift` property.";
    background-color: wheat;
    display: block;
    width: 100%;
    text-align: center;
    padding: 0.5em;
  }
}
```

#### Results

{{EmbedLiveSample("Using keyword values", "300", "370")}}

> The SVG `baseline-shift` attribute values are used in the first SVG example. In the second and third images, the `baseline-shift` overrides the attribute values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SVG `baseline-shift` attribute values are used in the first SVG. In the second and third SVGs, the CSS `baseline-shift` values override the attribute values.
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

> ## Browser compatibility

Reviewer: The BCD isn't exactly wrong, but I noticed that `baseline-shift` works fine in Firefox Nightly, but is disabled in Firefox release. Maybe worth raising a PR or issue on the BCD repo if you fancy it.
